E-cigarettes are heavily promoted across all media outlets. E-cigarette businesses promote their e-cigarette products on Facebook, Instagram, YouTube, and Twitter. Promotional content created by people are seen on Facebook, Instagram, and YouTube. Online blogs and forums contain promotional content created by e-cigarette users. A 2017 review found "The rise of new media has enabled the tobacco industry to penetrate channels such as Twitter and YouTube with information offsetting tobacco control denormalisation strategies, of which the electronic cigarette industry is now capitalising on." E-cigarettes are being promoted at popular events and venues, in addition to, on business websites, social media, and via other online places, including Groupon. E-cigarette brands use websites to interact directly with their customers through direct-to-consumer marketing (e.g., direct mail and direct e-mail). A cartoon character called Mr. Cool appeared on blu's website as well as on YouTube in 2014. Vapestick designed an old-fashion looking PC game dubbed Electronic cigarette wars. In 2013, an e-cigarette advertisement was seen in an iPad game designed for children. In October 2013, British American Tobacco, owner of Vype e-cigarettes, was notified by educator Graham Brown-Martin with a tweet to British American Tobacco's business account about the advertisement in the My Dog My Style HD children's game. The company withdrew its advertising and stated: "We've investigated and found a breach of protocols by third party used by ad agency. It's unacceptable and we're taking the issue seriously." Marketing firms are tweeting on Twitter to promote vaping and regularly include links to where they can be purchased online. Some business Twitter accounts have promoted vaping as a quitting smoking aid. E-cigarettes have been heavily marketed across Twitter feeds, offering discounts, "kid-friendly" flavors, algorithmically generated false testimonials, and free samples. They are also marketing online through promotional videos that provide information on how to use such products. E-cigarette businesses, such as Eonsmoke, have paid YouTubers to have their products reviewed on YouTube. Most of the YouTube videos associated with vaping portray this activity as a safe and cool replacement to smoking. E-cigarette businesses have advertised online on Google Search, Yahoo! Search, and Bing. The evidence indicates e-cigarettes are being marketed on social media as a harm reduction alternative, with retailers and manufacturers utilizing marketing techniques historically used by the tobacco industry.
